<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 5</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter 5: What Is to Be Done?</h2>
			<p>But above-stairs it was different. One day, for instance, after breakfast, the king went into his counting-house, and counted out his money. The operation gave him no pleasure.</p>
			<p>“To think,” said he to himself, “that every one of these gold sovereigns weighs a quarter of an ounce, and my real, live, flesh-and-blood princess weighs nothing at all!”</p>
			<p>And he hated his gold sovereigns, as they lay with a broad smile of self-satisfaction all over their yellow faces.</p>
			<p>The queen was in the parlour, eating bread and honey. But at the second mouthful she burst out crying, and could not swallow it.</p>
			<p>The king heard her sobbing. Glad of anybody, but especially of his queen, to quarrel with, he clashed his gold sovereigns into his money-box, clapped his crown on his head, and rushed into the parlour.</p>
			<p>“What is all this about?” exclaimed he. “What are you crying for, queen?”</p>
			<p>“I can’t eat it,” said the queen, looking ruefully at the honey-pot.</p>
			<p>“No wonder!” retorted the king. “You’ve just eaten your breakfast⁠—two turkey eggs, and three anchovies.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s not it!” sobbed her Majesty. “It’s my child, my child!”</p>
			<p>“Well, what’s the matter with your child? She’s neither up the chimney nor down the draw-well. Just hear her laughing.”</p>
			<p>Yet the king could not help a sigh, which he tried to turn into a cough, saying⁠—</p>
			<p>“It is a good thing to be light-hearted, I am sure, whether she be ours or not.”</p>
			<p>“It is a bad thing to be light-headed,” answered the queen, looking with prophetic soul far into the future.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis a good thing to be light-handed,” said the king.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis a bad thing to be light-fingered,” answered the queen.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis a good thing to be light-footed,” said the king.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis a bad thing⁠—” began the queen; but the king interrupted her.</p>
			<p>“In fact,” said he, with the tone of one who concludes an argument in which he has had only imaginary opponents, and in which, therefore, he has come off triumphant⁠—“in fact, it is a good thing altogether to be light-bodied.”</p>
			<p>“But it is a bad thing altogether to be light-minded,” retorted the queen, who was beginning to lose her temper.</p>
			<p>This last answer quite discomfited his Majesty, who turned on his heel, and betook himself to his counting-house again. But he was not half-way towards it, when the voice of his queen overtook him.</p>
			<p>“And it’s a bad thing to be light-haired,” screamed she, determined to have more last words, now that her spirit was roused.</p>
			<p>The queen’s hair was black as night; and the king’s had been, and his daughter’s was, golden as morning. But it was not this reflection on his hair that arrested him; it was the double use of the word light. For the king hated all witticisms, and punning especially. And besides, he could not tell whether the queen meant light-haired or light-heired; for why might she not aspirate her vowels when she was exasperated herself?</p>
			<p>He turned upon his other heel, and rejoined her. She looked angry still, because she knew that she was guilty, or, what was much the same, knew that <i>he</i> thought so.</p>
			<p>“My dear queen,” said he, “duplicity of any sort is exceedingly objectionable between married people of any rank, not to say kings and queens; and the most objectionable form duplicity can assume is that of punning.”</p>
			<p>“There!” said the queen, “I never made a jest, but I broke it in the making. I am the most unfortunate woman in the world!”</p>
			<p>She looked so rueful, that the king took her in his arms; and they sat down to consult.</p>
			<p>“Can you bear this?” said the king.</p>
			<p>“No, I can’t,” said the queen.</p>
			<p>“Well, what’s to be done?” said the king.</p>
			<p>“I’m sure I don’t know,” said the queen. “But might you not try an apology?”</p>
			<p>“To my old sister, I suppose you mean?” said the king.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said the queen.</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t mind,” said the king.</p>
			<p>So he went the next morning to the house of the princess, and, making a very humble apology, begged her to undo the spell. But the princess declared, with a grave face, that she knew nothing at all about it. Her eyes, however, shone pink, which was a sign that she was happy. She advised the king and queen to have patience, and to mend their ways. The king returned disconsolate. The queen tried to comfort him.</p>
			<p>“We will wait till she is older. She may then be able to suggest something herself. She will know at least how she feels, and explain things to us.”</p>
			<p>“But what if she should marry?” exclaimed the king, in sudden consternation at the idea.</p>
			<p>“Well, what of that?” rejoined the queen. “Just think! If she were to have children! In the course of a hundred years the air might be as full of floating children as of gossamers in autumn.”</p>
			<p>“That is no business of ours,” replied the queen. “Besides, by that time they will have learned to take care of themselves.”</p>
			<p>A sigh was the king’s only answer.</p>
			<p>He would have consulted the court physicians; but he was afraid they would try experiments upon her.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
