<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter 1: What! No Children?</h2>
			<p>Once upon a time, so long ago that I have quite forgotten the date, there lived a king and queen who had no children.</p>
			<p>And the king said to himself, “All the queens of my acquaintance have children, some three, some seven, and some as many as twelve; and my queen has not one. I feel ill-used.” So he made up his mind to be cross with his wife about it. But she bore it all like a good patient queen as she was. Then the king grew very cross indeed. But the queen pretended to take it all as a joke, and a very good one too.</p>
			<p>“Why don’t you have any daughters, at least?” said he. “I don’t say sons; that might be too much to expect.”</p>
			<p>“I am sure, dear king, I am very sorry,” said the queen.</p>
			<p>“So you ought to be,” retorted the king; “you are not going to make a virtue of that, surely.”</p>
			<p>But he was not an ill-tempered king, and in any matter of less moment would have let the queen have her own way with all his heart. This, however, was an affair of state.</p>
			<p>The queen smiled.</p>
			<p>“You must have patience with a lady, you know, dear king,” said she.</p>
			<p>She was, indeed, a very nice queen, and heartily sorry that she could not oblige the king immediately.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
